And I remember the shock that I felt
when I first watched that devastating
scene. And I believe that was the moment
when my fate was sealed as a filmmaker.
[music]
>> So I think this is a scene that best
represents my personality and [music]
taste as a filmmaker.
I think other people mentioned this shot
in Old Boy a lot as well, but I'd also
have to go with the same one, which is
the one where Odessu is fighting a big
crowd of gangsters in a hallway, and
this is a wide angle shot that is moving
horizontally. I'll have [music] to pick
that one. It was actually shot at a very
unrealistic camera position because if
you consider the width of the hallway
and the placement of the camera, it
looks very blatantly clear that one of
the walls had to be [music] taken out to
shoot this. But I really wanted to
capture the group image uh in a wide
which is why I decided to use that
method and the actual size of the set
because of that reason was not important
to [music] me. I think what I was going
for is one of those large tapestries uh
from medieval Europe portraying uh
history. So pictures with lots of swords
and spears and armors and horses. I
wanted this scene, this shot to feel
like that large historical tapestry from
the time.
>> [music]
>> I would have to pick the scene that I
consider as the climax of the film,
which is where the male protagonist uh
and the woman female protagonist is
fighting and he ends up killing her and
then he regrets it and decides to feed
his blood to her to revive her and turn
her into a vampire like himself.
This is one of my favorite kinds of
shots because on top [music] of this uh
man and woman, there's also the mother
of the man that they killed. Uh she
can't move. Uh but they do start a fight
between these three people. And in this
moment, all of the guilt explodes and
there's many emotional elements running
through this uh single scene. There's
[music] guilt, there's love, there's
hatred, and there's regret. And there's
also that joy from being rebirthed as a
vampire. And then from the man's
perspective, [music] there's that
question of doubt of was making her a
vampire the right decision. And all of
these elements are tangled up in this
one long take, which is why I chose this
shot.
>> I had to inevitably [music]
feature a lot of blood because of the
vampire genre nature of this film. I
wanted to have a look that would
contrast [music] with the red of the
blood. In addition to that, the
characters featured in this film are
very dramatic and passionate. So I
[music] wanted the visual look of the
film to contrast those things. I wanted
it feel I wanted [music] it to feel very
cold instead. And within this cold
image, I wanted to portray [music] these
extreme emotions exploding from the
characters.
>> [music]
>> hand maiden
>> for the handmaidaiden. I think the scene
that I could immediately think [music]
of on the spot is the scene that the
villains study where all the evil things
happen. uh specifically when they're
preparing for a reading, [music] the
servants take off the tatami floor of
the study and then they put this
Japanese style garden with all the
stones and the water and the grass and
this brilliant transition of interior
[music] design. Uh when my production
designer and I thought of came up with
that idea, we were very excited for it.
Uh so we put in a lot of work and a lot
of budget into creating it for the
screen. So this very neat and tidy study
uh changes and transforms uh its look
for a very evil purpose. And the fact
that a garden that's supposed to be on
the outside of the house is in the
inside of the house. These particular
ideas related to the interior design is
what really makes me love this scene.
>> This film is actually also based on an
original novel, The Fingermith, which
was set in the Victorian ages. Then I
changed the time period to back when
Korea was under Japanese occupation. And
because of this, the space that is
featured in this film has political
significance. The villain of the film,
he's somebody who has loyalty to the
Japanese imperialist. And that's why he
venerates Japanese culture and the
European culture that was introduced
through Japan. Uh so in this film in
spatially speaking we see these Japanese
and European elements but there's also
Korean elements in the background as
well. So all of these spaces itself has
these political significances of its
own.
I would pick the white shot with the
yellow ginko tree leaves falling and
there's that twisted pathway and Mansu
is screaming and running from Ara who is
chasing him with a gun. Uh, and this is
a scene where this inexperienced killer
Manu, he didn't even succeed at his job
and ends up getting chased by this crazy
woman who was the wife of the man that
he tried to kill. And he's looking so
terrified and running for his life. And
this scene is a very funny scene. But if
if you consider his story leading up to
this moment, you also feel very bad for
him. And uh if we add the Baroque music
that is playing over the scene, it
really uh brings out the irony of the
situation as well. So I think this is a
scene that best represents my
personality and taste as a filmmaker.
If I could mention one more thing about
this scene, uh if we remember Ara while
talking with her husband in an earlier
scene says if things keep going on like
this, I might turn into a crazy woman
and just run barefoot across the
mountain. So this is the scene where
that prophecy has come true.
>> Daylight is repeatedly featured
throughout the film as a visual motif.
Uh but it expands beyond just light from
the sun. We also use light from lamps to
similarly convey a visual motif. So at
the end of the fight scene after the
dance party, uh when Mansu is talking
about this difficult interview that he's
a part of, Miri suddenly turns on the
light. So that's also an example of that
as well.
>> Through this light, I wanted to portray
this tragic power of destiny over
mankind. It's almost like this light is
shrinking Manu. It's exposing him and he
is shriveling away under this light. And
to exaggerate a bit further, it's almost
like watching butter melting under the
sun. That's what I wanted to portray.
[music]
>> There are two films that made me uh want
to become a filmmaker. The first one is
Vertigo and the second one is the Korean
film Firewoman 82. And I want to mention
a scene from the latter movie which
truly shocked me. Uh so this is a scene
where a man is trying to kill himself
with his lover. Uh and as they're dying,
he realizes that he wants to die next to
his wife and not the lover. So uh he
begins to climb down the stairs, but the
lover grabs his leg saying, "No, I want
you to die next to me." So, as he's
going down the staircase, because she's
laying down and grabbing her his legs,
her her head bumps into each step of the
staircase as they go down.
>> And they're slowly dying in the process
as well. And I remember the shock that I
felt when I first watched that
devastating scene. And I believe that
was the moment when my fate was sealed
as a filmmaker.
>> This was a great conversation. Thank
you.